Good afternoon.
Welcome to Multi-Touch
Events and Gestures.
My name is Jason Beaver.
I am an engineer on the UIKit team.
And I really hope today that
we can show you just how easy
it is to use the multi-touch
interface to build really rich,
powerful,
intuitive applications for your users.
As you can see in the interface,
or the video on the screen,
the touch interface
provides a really natural,
intuitive way for your users to
interact with elements on the screen.
They can touch on items, scroll around,
zoom in and out.
All directly with the elements on
the screen instead of indirectly
through touchpads and physical
buttons and things like that.
This provides an experience
that's much closer to what
users experience on the desktop,
where they interact directly with the
items on the screen using the mouse.
The finger isn't a mouse.
You can't click on the screen or
touch on the screen with anywhere
near the level of precision you
can with a mouse on the desktop.
In fact,
when the user touches on the screen,
the contact patch is actually elliptical.
And the shape and size of this
contact patch varies based on
which finger the user uses,
how hard they press,
what angle they're holding their hand,
et cetera.
In fact, even as they drag their
finger over the screen,
the size and shape of
this ellipsoid changes.
As a developer, though,
you really don't want to
think about this ellipsoid.
You just want to think
about a single touch point,
the point where the user
was intending to touch.
And you might think, well,
that's just the center of this ellipse,
right?
But it's not.
When we've done studies and
tested where users touch,
they think where they're touching is
very close to the tip of their finger.
It's actually offset somewhat below that.
So the system sort of
takes all this information,
as well as the orientation of the screen,
and computes a single
touch point for you.
So what are we going to cover today?
We're going to cover a
number of different topics.
The first is, what is a touch sequence?
How is it represented
to your application?
And then how is it delivered
Then we'll talk about single touches,
multiple touches in the same view,
and multiple touches in different views.
And then we'll talk a little bit about
how the touches actually get routed to
those views and how you can control that.
As well as using UI control
when your needs for touch
are a little more simplistic.
So let's start with what
a touch sequence is.
A touch sequence starts when the user's
finger contacts the surface of the
screen and continues as the finger tracks
along the surface of the screen and ends
when the finger lifts from the screen.
So let's talk now about how
this is represented to you.
Well, a finger is represented by an
instance of the UI touch class.
There are three properties on UI Touch.
The first is the timestamp.
This represents the last time the state
of that finger changed in some way.
The phase, which indicates what the
finger is currently doing.
Did it just contact the screen?
Is it moving around on the screen
or is it stationary on the screen?
Or did it just lift from the screen?
And finally, tap count.
Now, a tap is a lot like a click
with a mouse on the desktop.
If the user touches the
screen and touches just
briefly enough and then lifts,
and there's relatively little motion,
that's considered a tap.
And if the user taps two or three times,
we increment tap count for
you so that you can use that
to perform certain actions.
There are a couple of
additional properties.
The touch is associated
with a window and a view.
This happens when the touch
first contacts the screen.
The system determines which
window it's associated with.
And then the window further figures
out which view it's associated with.
And from that point forward,
the touch is directly
associated with that view,
and the event is forwarded
directly into that view as the
finger moves around on the screen.
There are also a couple of methods
to figure out where the finger
currently is on the screen.
There's location in view and
previous location in view.
Location in view tells where the touch
is in the view's coordinate system.
The view that's passed
in is the argument here.
And if the finger's in motion,
previous location in view tells
you where it was right before this.
Now, Events is a container for all
of the touches on the screen.
It also has a timestamp indicating
last time the event was updated.
And there are three methods to
access the touches inside this event.
There's All Touches that access-- that
gives you a setback containing all
the touches currently on the screen.
And there's Touches for Window and
Touches for View to find out the touches
that started in that window in view.
So let's look at this
a little graphically.
We have an event.
This event has four
touches associated with it.
And those touches are associated
with different windows.
The first three are with window A,
and the last one is with window B.
Furthermore,
those touches are associated with
various views within those windows.
If we ask the event for all the touches,
obviously we'll get back a set
containing all of the touches.
And if we ask for touches for
window and you pass in window A,
we'll get back a set
with the first three,
and for window B, we'll get back a set
containing the last one.
Same with touches for view.
If we ask for touches for
view for the first view,
we'll get back the first two touches,
the third touch for view B,
and the last touch for view C.
So let's now talk about how those touches
are delivered to your application.
To receive touches,
you need to be a subclass
of the UI Responder class,
and there are four methods that
you need to handle touches.
The first is touchesBeganWithEvent.
There's a couple things to
notice about this method.
The first is that the
first argument is a set.
If multiple fingers contact
your view simultaneously,
you'll be passed a set
of all of those fingers.
And the second is there's an
event argument at the end,
and as we've talked about,
the event argument can be used to
access other fingers that may already
be in contact with the screen.
Now, as fingers move within your view,
Your set of touches
moved with event message.
And you're only told about the
touches that are in motion.
If there are several fingers in contact
with your view but only one moves,
that set will just contain the
one touch that's in motion.
And finally, Touches Ended.
This is sent when a finger
lifts from the screen.
And again, the set will only contain
the fingers that have lifted.
There may still be other touches
in contact with your view,
and you can use the event
object to find out about those.
And finally, Touches Cancelled.
When there are certain system events,
such as an incoming phone call
or an alert sheet popping up,
any fingers that are currently tracking
on the screen will get canceled.
And one of the most common problems
that we've seen in some of the
apps we've encountered is people
not implementing touches canceled.
Anytime your view changes its
internal state in any way,
whether that's visually
or just in your model,
when it's tracking a finger,
you need to always make sure you
implement touches canceled to reset
that state in exactly the same way
you would with your touches ended.
So we've mentioned you have to
be a subclass of UIResponder.
So what sorts of things are subclasses
of responder and can handle touches?
Well, the application object is,
as well as UIView and UIViewController.
And since UIView is a responder,
this means that pretty much
everything you see on the screen
is a responder and can
handle touch events.
So it's from controls and labels,
image use, buttons, things like that.
So let's see how this all
works now for a single touch.
When the finger contacts the screen,
we'll figure out which window
and view are associated with
that touch and send that view,
touches began with event,
and we'll pass along a
single touch instance,
and that's represented by the box
in the upper right-hand corner.
There's a couple things to notice here.
The first is that the
address of that touch,
here it's represented as 123,
will remain constant for
the lifetime of that touch.
When the finger actually
contacts the screen,
we allocate a touch instance,
and then as it moves
around on the screen,
we simply update that instance
and tell you about the changes,
and it's not deallocated
until the finger lifts.
So you can actually use the uniqueness
of that instance address as a key to
sort of keep track of touches over time.
The next thing to notice is that
the phase of the touches began,
indicating that it just
contacted the screen,
and the location indicates where
on the screen it contacted.
As it moves,
you're going to start to receive
a series of touches moved bins.
Notice the address is the same
and the phase is now moved,
and the location is being updated
each time you receive the message.
And when the finger finally
lifts from the screen,
your touch is ended with event,
the phase is now ended,
and the location represents
the last point that the finger
was in contact with the screen.
So we're going to look
at a simple demo now.
We have a canvas, which is the white
area in the background,
and a single image view in the middle,
and we want to allow the user to
click within that image view and
drag that image around on the screen.
Basically, we want to achieve an
effect kind of like this.
So let's go over to Demos
and see how we do this.
So I have a basic app structure here
created from one of the templates.
There's only a couple
of things we've added.
We've added a touch image view,
which I'll get into in a second.
So this has a top-level application
delegate and a top-level view controller.
So we're going to go
into the view controller,
and in our viewDidLoad method,
we're going to add that image view.
So the first thing we'll
do is load our image,
the flowing rock image.
And then we'll create a rectangle and
a touch image view from that rectangle.
Now, a touch image view is just
a subclass of UI image view,
and we'll get into that in just a second.
We need to assign the TouchImageView's
image property to the image we loaded.
And we'll just center
that view in the window.
will then add it as a sub-view
of our View Controller's view
and release the touch image view.
So let's go over to the header
now of our touch image view.
As I said,
it is a subclass of UI image view,
but we need a couple of additional
instance variables here.
We're going to need an affine transform
for how we'll manipulate this image.
Now, for this first demo, really,
we're just allowing
you to move it around.
We could use this by just
positioning the view directly,
but we're going to be expanding
this demo over the course of
this session to allow multiple
fingers for scaling and rotating.
So we'll do this with a transform.
And we need a dictionary to record the
beginning points for all these fingers.
Now, in our initWithFrame for
our touch image view,
we need to set up the original transform
to be just the identity transform,
indicating we don't want this
transformed at all initially.
and we'll create that dictionary that
we're going to use for the begin points.
We need to set one more thing because
this is a subclass of UI Image View.
Image Views by default have
user interaction disabled,
so we need to turn that back on to
allow us to receive the touch events.
So now we need to provide
our implementations for
the various touch handlers.
So the first we'll start
out with is touches_began.
In this case,
all we need to do is actually cache
the begin points for the touches.
We're not going to get into
the specifics of some of the
methods that we'll see here.
They're a little too complex to go with,
especially the ones that do
the transforms in this session.
But this demo is available
for download afterwards,
and I'll talk about that in a little bit.
So now on our touches moved,
we need to compute an
incremental transform.
Basically,
this is going to take that start
point that's cached and the current
point and figure out a transform.
In the case of a single finger,
it'll just be a translate transform.
When we get into multiple fingers,
it will automatically handle
rotate and scale for us.
And then all we need to do is take
our original transform and that new
transform and concatenate that and
set that as our view's transform.
Now, when a finger -- when a
-- when a touch is ended,
when a finger lifts,
we need to update that original transform
so the image stays where it was and then
just remove those touches from the cache.
Now, finally, we need to implement
our touches canceled,
and we have a couple of choices here.
If we want to -- we want that
image to snap back to where it was,
we could just reset
our state and clean up.
In this case, though,
we probably want the image to just
stay wherever it was under the finger,
so we want to do the same thing
we do when touch is ended.
And so we can simply just
call touches ended from our
touches canceled in this case.
So now if we build and run on this.
[Transcript missing]
Okay, if we can go back to slides,
that's really all we need to
do to handle a single touch.
So now let's talk about how we
would handle multiple touches.
Most views really only want
to handle a single touch.
In fact, it would be extra work for most
views to deal with the fact that
there may be multiple fingers
contacting that view at the same time.
So by default,
if a finger is tracking in a view and
another finger contacts that view,
it's simply ignored by the system.
The view is never told about it.
But if your view expects to and
knows how to handle multiple touches,
all you have to do to enable that
is to set the UIView property
MultipleTouchEnabled to Yes.
So let's now look at a
multiple touch sequence.
Obviously,
this is not the way you normally
interact with your phone with two hands,
but...
When the first finger
contacts the screen,
that view will be sent a Touch As Began
with Event with a touch instance,
and as it moves,
it will receive Touch As Moved.
So far, this is exactly like
the single-touch case.
When the next hand contacts,
or next finger contacts,
you'll be sent another
Touches Began with Event.
And that set will only
contain that new touch,
the touch on the right here, address ABC.
Notice that the other
touch is grayed out there.
It's still in the event.
If you ask the event for all
the touches for the view,
you will see that touch.
And you notice that its
phase is stationary.
Now,
if both fingers move at the same time,
your view will receive a touches
moved with event message.
And because both fingers moved,
the set will contain both touches.
Notice both--the phase for
both touches is in moved,
and the locations have changed.
And if just one moves, again,
you'll receive a touches moved,
but the set will only contain
the finger that moved,
the other touches there,
and mark stationary.
And when the fingers both lift,
you're sent a Touches Ended With Event,
and the set contains both touches.
The phase is in the Ended state.
So we're going to modify our demo
now to allow the user to put multiple
fingers down in this view and rotate
and scale and move that image view.
So this is the effect
we're trying to achieve.
So let's look at now how to do that.
So the first thing we need to
do is tell the system that our
view can handle multiple touches.
So we'll do that by setting the
multiple touch enabled property to yes.
And then we need to do a little more work
in our touches began and touches ended,
because we may receive these with other
fingers still in contact with the screen.
So when our touches began,
We need to figure out what touches
are already in contact with our view.
So we do this by asking the event
for all the touches for our view,
and then simply subtracting off
the touches that just came in.
This gives us a set of touches that were
in contact before this touches began.
And if there are any touches in that set,
we simply need to update our
original transform and reset the
begin points for those touches,
and then we can cache the begin points
for the new touches and move on.
Now, the touches moved actually doesn't
have to change at all because
the method that computes the
incremental transform already knows
how to deal with multiple fingers.
We need to do a little more work,
and our touch is ended,
and it's somewhat analogous to the
stuff we did in the touches began.
Basically,
we need to compute the remaining touches,
and we do that in exactly the same way.
We ask for the touches for view self,
subtract off the touches that are ending.
That leaves the remaining touches.
And then we just need to
cache their begin points.
Now, we've already updated the
original transform here,
so we don't need to do that.
Now, if we build and run this,
[Transcript missing]
You can go back to slides.
So that was how to
track in a single view.
But what if those fingers are
tracking in different views?
How do we handle that?
So in this case,
we have a view on the left
and right of the screen.
When the finger contacts the left view,
it will receive a
Touch As Began with event,
and as it moves, it will receive a
Touch As Moved with event,
exactly like in the single-touch case.
When a finger touches the other view,
it will receive a Touch As Began with
event with the touch that landed in it.
There's still the other touch there.
It's marked Stationary,
but the view associated with that
doesn't receive any notification
that a touch is moved because the
touch in that view didn't move.
Now, if they both move,
we're going to send two separate
Touch As Moved with event to views,
and they'll each contain the one
touch associated with that view.
If just one moves, again,
we'll only send Touch As Moved
to the one that actually has
a finger that's in motion.
And if they both lift,
we'll again send touches ended with
event to each of those views separately.
So you want some control, though,
over how we deliver
events to multiple views.
It's not always appropriate for multiple
views to be tracking these fingers.
For example,
if you have a table view with some
sort of row that's highlighted and
you have two different buttons,
one to edit that row and
one to delete that row,
you probably don't want the user clicking
on both of those at the same time.
So in that case, we provide a flag that
lets you control this,
and that is the exclusive touch flag.
The exclusive touch flag, if that is set,
then if there are fingers tracking
in any other views within that
window and the user tries to touch
on your exclusive touch view,
it's simply ignored.
Your view's never told about it.
And conversely,
if there's a finger already in your
exclusive touch view and you try to
touch on some other view in that window,
that touch is ignored.
Basically what this does is it
guarantees that if your exclusive
touch view is tracking any touches,
it's the only view within your
window that's tracking touches.
So now we're going to extend our
demo to have several image views.
And we're first going to show how we can
move and scale all of these separately.
And then we'll turn on the exclusive
touch flag and show how that limits us
to only interacting with one at a time.
So this is the effect we're
trying to achieve here.
We're only showing
movement here in the video,
but we'll be able to do
rotation and scale as well.
So in our view controller,
we already loaded one image,
and we have a block of code to do that.
We'll have two more blocks of
code that are very similar,
one to set the clownfish image
and one to set the stones image.
And that's actually the
only change we need to make.
If we run our demo now--
You'll see we have multiple image views.
I can click and move these,
and I can scale and rotate
each of these independently.
Limit that so that we only can
interact with one at a time.
All I need to do to do that is
go back to our touch image view,
and in our init with frame,
I'll set the exclusive touch flag to yes.
While we're here, I'm going to make one
other little change.
Notice these views can now overlap.
I want to allow the
user to reorder those.
So I'm going to enable them
to double tap on one of those
images to pop it to the front.
All we need to do to do that is to
go down to where our touch has ended.
And we'll just iterate through
the touches that are ending.
We'll check to see if their tap
count is greater than or equal to 2.
And we'll just move that to the
front of the view hierarchy.
[Transcript missing]
As I mentioned, this sample is available
up on the attendees site.
The URL is here for that.
I urge you to take a look at that.
So let's now talk about how
touches are routed to your views.
There's two parts of this
I want to talk about.
The first is the responder chain.
Now, I mentioned that--all along
I've mentioned that a touch is
associated with a window and a view.
And once we make that association,
we'll send touches began to that view.
But what happens if that view
doesn't implement touches began?
Well,
the system will try all of the objects in
the responder chain to try to find some
object that knows how to handle this.
So we'll start with the view, and again,
if it doesn't implement it,
we'll see if that view
has a view controller.
And if it does,
we'll ask that view controller
to process the touches began.
If it doesn't implement it,
we'll go to that view's
super view and try it.
Again,
it's super -- it's view controller.
And we'll work our way up the super
view chain until we reach the window.
The window is a subclass of view,
so obviously it can handle touches,
and we'll see if this
window wants to handle it.
And if not,
we'll forward it on to the application.
And I mentioned the application is one
of those subclasses of UI Responder.
Now, if no object handles the touch,
that's fine.
We won't try to send it on any farther,
but as the finger continues to move,
we'll still send touches
moved in exactly the same way.
We'll start back at the view and
work our way up the responder chain,
trying to find somebody
that handles the move.
So what does this mean to you if all
you care about is when the finger ends,
like when it lifts?
You can simply implement
touches ended with event.
The touches began and touches moved
will work their way up the responder
chain and nobody will handle them,
and you'll still be
sent the touches ended.
Now, this is what the full
responder chain looks like.
In most applications,
only the root-most view
will have a view controller,
so this is a little more typical picture
of what the responder chain looks like.
The other part of touch
routing is hit testing.
Hit testing is how we actually determine
which view within a window is the
one that should receive the events.
So when a touch contacts
someplace on the screen,
the system will determine which
window that is and then ask the
window to figure out which view
the touch should be routed to.
And it does this by starting at
the back of the view hierarchy and
sending a hit test with event message.
Now, that view will check several
properties of itself.
The first is,
is user interaction enabled?
This was the property we had to
set on the image view to enable
it to receive touch events.
The next is, is that view hidden?
Hidden views can't process touches.
So if the view is hidden,
it'll return nil from hit test
and the window will go on to try
to find some other view that's
capable of handling that touch.
We'll also check the alpha.
If the alpha is zero,
that means the view is completely
transparent and that's not a valid
view for hit testing or for tracking.
And the last is we'll call
Point Inside with Event.
This checks to see if the touch is
completely within the bounds of the view.
If it's outside the view,
that's not a valid view for tracking.
Now, then that view will go on and
recursively call HitTestWithEvent
for all of its subviews,
and that'll work its way down the
view hierarchy until it finds a
view that meets these criteria
and doesn't have any subviews.
So in this case, it's just our subview,
and it doesn't have any further children.
The subview will check all the
same things and then return itself.
At that point,
we create the touch instance.
We assign the view property to that view
and the window property to the window.
Now, not all views implement
the default hit testing,
and you can override this to change how
hit testing works in your application.
A good example is the scroll view.
In a scroll view,
you want to be able to have a lot
of content inside the scroll view,
but if you click on that,
you still want to be able to scroll.
You don't want, like,
there's a button in the middle
of that and you hit the button,
you don't want that to block scrolling.
So the way scroll view implements this
So when the finger contacts the screen,
the window gets that,
calls hit testing just like it has.
ScrollView receives that.
And it checks the exact same
parameters it does to make
sure it's a valid hit target.
And at this point,
the ScrollView simply returns itself.
We create a touch instance at
this point where the view is
associated with the ScrollView.
So this means that as that finger
moves around on the screen,
we're going to send the updates to
that touch directly to the scroll view,
not to the view inside that the
user thinks they clicked on.
Now,
the scroll view still needs to know which
object the user actually touched on,
so it will internally go
through the same process.
It'll call hit test with event on
down the view hierarchy until it
finds the actual object that was hit.
But it'll just cache that internally
so that it can forward those events on.
So if your object is
inside a scroll view,
you may be sent a touches began
and touches moved to track a touch.
But what happens if you call touches
for view and pass yourself in?
In that case,
you're actually going to get
a nil back or an empty set.
There are no touches that are
actually associated with your views.
So you need to be a little
careful in certain circumstances.
If you do implement touch routing,
touch forwarding in your application,
you need to recognize that
sometimes views will be asked
to process touches that aren't
directly associated with them.
So, up to this point,
we've talked entirely about
handling the touches yourself.
But if all you need from the touch
system is simple notification when
something like a user touches somewhere
or lifts their finger from somewhere,
You could avoid some of this complexity
by using the UI Control class.
So UI Control defines several events
which you can associate actions with.
It shows you it has events for when
the finger contacts the screen,
or in the case of double
or triple tapping,
contacts the screen with repeat.
If the finger's dragging around
inside your control or has started
in your control and is now dragging
around outside your control,
there are events posted for that.
When it is dragging,
if it reenters your control
or exits your control,
there are events associated with that.
And finally, when the finger lifts,
if it lifts inside your control
or outside your control,
there are separate events for that.
We also mentioned touches canceled.
That happens.
There's a touch cancel event that
you can associate an action with.
So how do you associate those
actions with the control?
There is a method on UI Control called
Add Target Action for Control Events.
The target is the object
you want to be notified.
The action is the method selector
that we will invoke on your object.
And the control events are the
set of control events that you
want to trigger those actions.
And that's a bit mass,
so you can specify as
many as you'd like there.
So I should mention that this is a little
different than the way target action
stuff works on the desktop for those
of you who are familiar with Cocoa.
In Cocoa, there's only a single target
and action associated for
sort of the entire control.
In UIKit, notice it's add target action,
not set target action.
You can have as many as you'd like,
and you can associate multiple
targets and actions even with
the exact same control event.
So let's look at the action signatures.
This is also different from the desktop.
In the desktop, the action method has to
have a single signature,
and it's something that
takes a single argument.
On the phone, though,
there's three possible
signatures you can use.
This first is a method that
doesn't take any arguments.
Here it's called PerformAction,
but you can give this
any name you might like.
The second is one that
takes a single argument.
In this case, it's the control that is
generating the control event.
We're calling it performAction:
in this case, but again,
you can use any name you'd like.
And the last is a method
that takes two arguments:
the control that's generating the
control event and the event object.
So that's how you can associate
things with actual control events,
but you still might want to do
your own tracking in a control.
Since control is optimized
to handle single touches,
there's some simplified
methods to do that.
The first is begin tracking
with touch with event.
The first argument here
is a touch instance,
not a set of touches, because again,
the control is optimized to
deal with a single touch.
And there's a return
value of Boolean here,
which is different than
touchesBeganWithEvent,
which has a void return type.
The return value here indicates whether
you want to continue processing events.
If when the finger contacts the control
and you receive the Begin Tracking
with Touch event or message,
if you determine at that point that
you don't really care about this touch,
you can simply return No and
you won't receive any future
updates about that touch.
Now, compare this to handling the
touches more directly yourself.
If in your touches began,
you didn't want to handle that touch,
you'd have to keep some sort
of state around because you're
going to continue to receive
touches moved and touches ended,
and you're going to have to check that
state each time and make sure that,
or check to see if you really
want to process that touch.
As the finger moves,
you'll receive a "Continue tracking
with touch with event" message.
Again, it contains a single touch,
and there's a Boolean to indicate
whether you want to continue
receiving updates about this touch.
When the finger lifts,
there's an "End tracking with
touch with event" message.
And if it's canceled,
there is a corresponding "Cancel
tracking with event" message.
So we're going to look at a
simple little demo here that has
a set of labels up at the top.
[Transcript missing]
Let's see,
so the first thing we want to do
is we've got a new project here
with a similar type structure.
It's got an application
delegate and a view controller.
And in the ViewController,
we want to add a couple
of instance variables.
Oops, excuse me.
I need to go switch.
Which script I'm running?
So we have a couple
of instance variables.
The first is a rectangle that
we'll use to position each of
those labels down the screen.
will have an instance variable
for each of those labels.
And finally,
the button at the bottom-- and
button is just a subclass of control,
and we're using it here
just for visual appearance--
Now, in our implementation file,
we need to add a couple of methods.
We'll add a convenience method
that'll create that label for us.
So we'll add-- this is
called addLabelWithText.
It'll create a label,
set its font and text color,
and we'll align it to be in the center,
and then we'll set the
alpha to this default value,
which in this case is 0.3.
And then we'll assign the text,
add it as a subview of our
view controller's view,
and release the label.
Now we need to move that rectangle down
so we have a place to put the next label.
We'll do that here,
and then we'll simply return the label.
We also need another method that will
highlight this label for us and then
unhighlight it in an animated fashion.
So I have a method here
called HighlightLabel.
Here we're just going
to set the alpha to 1,
which makes it fully
opaque and fully blue.
And then we'll begin
an animation context,
set the animation duration
to 1 and 1/2 seconds,
and reset the alpha back to
the default value of 0.3.
And then we'll just commit that
animation to get it started.
When our view did load,
we need to set the
default label rectangle.
And then we're going to add
a series of labels here.
We'll just look at the first one,
but they're all roughly the same.
Text will be the text that's
associated with that event.
So in this case,
it's the Touchdown label,
and we'll assign that
to the Touchdown label,
Ivar.
Now we'll create our button.
We'll set its title to UI Control,
and for the control state Normal,
because we're not setting it
for any other control state,
it'll have this title for
all possible control states.
We'll add that as our subview.
And then now we need to associate
all the target and actions.
So again, we've got several methods here.
We'll just look at the first one.
We're going to add ourself as the target.
The selector is touchdown, again,
something we defined.
For the control event, touchdown.
And the rest are similar.
Now we need to actually go provide
implementations for all those actions.
Again, we've got a set here.
We'll just look at the first one.
Touchdown,
we'll simply call highlight label
and pass in the touchdown label.
Finally, we just need to make sure we're
cleaning up those IVARs properly.
If we look at the demo,
we notice we have the labels at the
top and the control at the bottom.
And if I just touch in the control,
notice I get a touchdown.
As I move around a little bit,
we're getting a drag inside.
If I stop, notice it fades out,
meaning we're no longer getting it.
But if I start moving my finger again,
we'll start receiving that again.
The fact that it stays blue indicates
we're receiving that continually.
And when I finally lift,
we'll get a touch up inside.
If I click and I drag outside,
notice you'll get a drag exit.
And then now we're dragging
outside the control.
And when I move back in,
we'll get a drag enter.
You may notice it doesn't
happen directly on the boundary.
The boundary's actually
a little farther away.
Because of the imprecision
of the touch system,
there's a buffer sort of
built around the control.
You have to touch in
the control to start,
but once you do that,
you can actually move a
little bit outside it,
and it won't.
It'll still track inside it.
So as you can see,
we're getting all the various
kinds of events as we touch
up inside or even outside.
And that's it.
So we covered a lot
of stuff this morning.
We talked a little bit about
how touches are represented and
how they're delivered to you.
And we talked about how to handle
single touches and multiple touches,
what happens if those touches
are in multiple views,
and how to control how those
touches are routed to those views,
and how to use the UI Control class
to do some simpler touch handling.
I really hope you guys will go out
and take a look at this touch demo
that's available for download,
as well as some of the other ones
that are up on developer.apple.com.
And we're really looking forward
to seeing the kind of great
stuff you guys can do with this.
I know you can build some pretty powerful
interfaces with this multi-touch screen.
If you want more information,
you can contact Derek Horn.
There's also documentation
up on the Apple site.
There is a lab Thursday morning,
tomorrow morning, in iPhone Lab B.
I'll be there along with some
of the other UI kit engineers.
There's also a related session
Friday morning at 10:30
called "How Do I Do That?
Tips and Tricks for iPhone
Application Development." They'll get
into a little more detail there about
some of the scroll view stuff and how
to use that and interact with that.